EMAILS
    - Focus hard on a leave it and come to get him to feel safe creating space from other dogs by moving toward me, and for disengaging from wildlife when he sees a prey.
    - focus on diffusing resource guarding (See google doc)
    - time out behaviors that are not appropriate, and reward and encourage good play style is the key

F&A 101 Notes
    - When he gets underwater, just drag him away. Nothing can be done to diffuse it in the heat, *AND* there's nothing to be done afterward other than re-focusing.
    - Reward good play behavior so he doesn't engage so much in domination / view it as a contest. Time out dominate play.


Body Language Cues
    Tail
        Wagging just means the dog is excited. That could be good or bad.
        Good Wags
            Tail at neutral height
            Rear end is wagging too, body is relaxed
            Slight right-ward bias or propeller
        Bad Wags
            Tail raised or unduly tucked
            Body stiff
            Slight left-ward bias
    Face
        Good
            Relaxed
            Appropriate (exertion and/or temperature) level of panting
        Bad/Stressed
            Yawning
            Tongue flicks
            Ears pinned back or tipped forward
            Excessive sniffing
            Snatching treats
            Stiff posture
    Movement
        Good
            Lean into petting
            Walks in curved lines
            Curved body when meeting another dog
        Bad
            Stalking
            Alert posture upon meeting


ACTIONS
    Don't alpha pin
    Stop petting after 5 seconds and gauge dog's reaction. Don't pester him, that's actually a punishment.
    Try using clicker again, think of it like a camera to capture good behavior.
    On squirrel, etc, wait for loose leash, give food at feet, and allow him to explore closer to squirrel.
        Ditto also for dragging toward water
    BAT for social play -
        Use two leashes clipped
        Beach analogy
    Practice taking his toys away to stop resource guarding
        When chewing the ball, lightly touch, leave a treat, and walk away
        With ball, click when dropped. Grab ball, Treat, Return ball. Eventually name it (drop or give)



BAT - Behavior adjustment training


CC - Counter-conditioning
    Make sure the reward/desensitation occurs AFTER the trigger, not before. Have the dog confront the issue, then reward to show it's no big deal. Use novel rewards reserved ONLY for this case.



Teaching a good habit:
    1.  At home, get the complete behavior. Click & treat (CT) each time
    2.  Add the cue word; don’t force the dog to respond/behave, but ignore if he doesn’t.
        NB: Don't visibly show treat. Teach the dog to respond to the cue, not the lure!
    3.  Begin only rewarding half the responses (the best). CT ~5-10 times.
    4.  Continue to wean off treats, responding with release and praise.
    5.  Vary the environment, repeat steps 1-4
    6.  Vary the distractions, repeat steps 1-4
    7.  Every once in awhile, repeat steps 1-4 as practice.

Cues to know:
    ⁃   Name
    ⁃   Watch
    ⁃   Recall
    ⁃   Relax
    ⁃   Sit
    ⁃   Down
    ⁃   Release
    ⁃   Stay
    ⁃   Wait
    ⁃   Touch
    ⁃   Heel / loose walk
    ⁃   Leave
    ⁃   Give / Drop

Reducing problem behaviors:
    •   remove rewards for problem behavior
    •   give the dog something to DO instead (how to get rid of any problem behavior) IFF: You can figure out what the functional reward is for the problem
behavior, you can control access to the functional reward, and there is an alternate behavior that will reasonably earn the same functional reward in the dog’s everyday life.
    1)  Analyze the problem behavior to find the functional reward.
    ⁃   What does your dog get out of doing what he’s doing?
    2)  Set up a Choice Point to Expose the dog to a subtle version of the situation that triggers the problem behavior.
    ⁃   Don’t make it so realistic that the dog does the problem behavior.
    ⁃   Breathe calmly.
    3)  Wait for good choices, i.e. replacement behaviors that your dog can do instead of the problem behavior.
    ⁃   If stress increases, stop the situation and start over in a better way instead of letting your dog flounder.
    4)  Mark the good choice with a word or clicker.
    5)  Give access to a Functional Reward
    ⁃   fulfill the need that triggered the behavior you are trying to change.

Things to not do:
    ⁃   Guard toys
    ⁃   Jump on people
    ⁃   Don’t look at him or pay attention to him in any way (even to say “off” or “no”) until he’s on the ground.
    ⁃   Bite
    ⁃   Aggression
    ⁃   Separation anxiety
    ⁃   Prey drive


HOUSETRAINING (43)
Dog stays in one of 4 states:
    - Can eliminate whenever (dog run)
    - Actually cannot eliminate (crate) [NB: max 4 hours in the crate]
    - Be vigitantly watched, especially after meals, drinks, play, and waking up
    - Empty, just went

Teach to eliminate on cue. A few seconds before sqautting or lifting, calmly say the cue ("be quick") JUST ONCE. C&T after finishing. Get on a regular schedule.

Train to ring the bear bell?

GUARDING (77)
    - Teach 'Give' or 'Drop': either cue or hold high-value treat near dog's mouth. C&T for dropping. Then immediately return the object. Walk away from dog to let him enjoy it for a time.
    -

CRATE TRAINING



PUPPY STEPS (w/Rocket)
    Crate train
    House train
    No guarding: give it / fetch
    Recall

ROCKET STEPS
	- Make an activity box [DONE]
	- Mark & Move (?)
    - Leave it / Give it commands
        - With ball, click when dropped. Grab ball, Treat, Return ball. Eventually name it (drop or give)
    - Name / Touch / Find it / Recall commands
    	- For getting attention, getting him to create space, break stare
        - Using high value treats!
    - When he gets underwater, just drag him away. Nothing can be done to diffuse it in the heat, *AND* there's nothing to be done afterward other than re-focusing.
    - Reward good play behavior so he doesn't engage so much in domination / view it as a contest. Time out dominate play.
    - Carry a 2nd ball around
    - Offer him a treat in the car to see if it's excitement or anxiety
    - Get him out of situations if he "freezes"
