ROCKET PLAN

AIMS: reduce guarding, reduce fear/frustration reactions, able to socially play nice, solid recall, solid leave it

FOR EACH COMMAND (~20x each step)
    1. CT each time complete behavior performed.
    2. Add cue word; wait for behavior. Don't lure with treat. CT each time.
    3. Reward only best/quickest responses, ~1/2.
    4. Change the environment (flooring, my position, garage, dog run, etc) and back to step 1
    5. Vary the distractions (do at playfield periphery, back to step 1)
        May require high value treats!

PROGRESS METER
    Name (immediately break focus and look at me): Step 1
        Next:
            Step 1. Say his name one time, and then give him a treat. Doesn’t have to look at you.
            Step 2. Start to require eye contact for his treat. If he looks within 5 seconds C&T.
                If he doesn’t look at you in time, step away & repeat after ~20 seconds.
            Step 3. Move on to requiring that he look within 3 seconds, then 2, then 1, then the Whiplash Rule—only instant looks get treats.

    [DONE] Touch (ignore distraction [break stare], come to me): Step 5

    Find (sniff in area for treats / toy): Step 2
        Next:

    Give (drop whatever, wait for me): Step 1
        Next: with ball, click when dropped. Grab ball, Treat, Return/throw ball.

    Leave (ignore distraction [break stare], look at me): Step 1
        Next:
            1. Have normal and high value treats
            2. Hold high value treat in front of dog, but don't give
            3. Once dog stops trying to get high value treat, mark, and give normal treat
            4. Expand to having high value treat hand open
            5. Don't treat with high value treat!
            6. Start using the leave it command only when the dog is leaving the food alone by himself

        w/Give, sometimes toss ball and tell him to leave it. C&T when he turns away

    Come (unquestioningly, aside from prey drive): Step 1
        Next:

    Heel / Look (at me): Step 1
        Next: Walk around the house with your dog. Each time she makes eye contact, click right as she makes eye contact and give her a treat. As you feed, put the treat directly beside you, along the outer seam of your pants, so that your dog learns that that’s a great spot to go to. Last for ~1 minute. Practice calling touch and then moving, initiating a "chase" (follow); then graduate to a heel-type follow of the hand;

    Relax: Step 1
        Next:
            Step 1. Randomly treat when he's relaxed. C&T quick, >=0.2hz.
            Step 2. Name it, right before you know he's going to relax (like after seeing a distraction)
            Step 3. Always start with the quick reinformcents of ~0.2hz, but decrease to 0.1, 1/20, etc
            Step 4. Try it outside; after play time, etc

BEHAVIOR: reduce fear/frustration reactions; greet & play socially
    Remember:
        - Utilize long leash
        - Don't reward bad behavior.
        - Just drag away if he tips past threshold
        - CT on good introductions; timeout on bad behavior

    (Mark & Move) - Upon distraction, halt; keep leash loose, give cue (leave, touch) & try to distract away. MARK on disengagement, THEN move, THEN treat.
        Progress:


SET UPS
    - Common room:

    - Edge of Green Lake: work on leave it (to not pull or pay attention to water), touch (similarly to break focus)

    - Edge of Playfield: (bring high value treats!)

        If an off-leash dog runs at Rocket:
            - Stay calm. Try to lead Rocket away calmly (lure him with treats)
            - Get between dogs. Command other dog to sit; breaking its attention on Rocket

    - Around Robert:

    - Around Tonks:

