BAKU

MAIN

Rip-Off Culture
    White Goose

    One of the places I've traveled that I get asked about my thoughts of most often is Morocco. Lots of people want to travel there. It seems foreign, but accessible. And the Casablanca lore probably keeps in more in people's minds than, say, near neighbor Tunisia.

    I did not like Morocco.

    I struggle to come up with a way of saying that politely - in a sensitive manner - because, frankly, what I disliked was the culture. First off, I don't really see Morocco as "African", but rather as Turkic. Throughout my time in Marrakesh, Casablanca, and Tangier I found a lot of similarities to my time in Istanbul.

    Some aspects of that I really like. There's a genuine hospitality at times that is wonderful. The food is generally terrific. The architecture is top-notch, and I find mosques to be among the prettiest religious structures around.

    And there are aspects that I really, really dislike. I find myself constantly on the defensive because I clearly stick out as a tourist and I am a target for low-level scams. Semi-routinely I would be clearly overcharged, or not given change back when warranted. Stopping to pause and look around anywhere was an invitation for people to try and sell me something long past my initial denial of interest, guide me where I'm going (for a cost), or falsely tell me where I'm going is not possible and try to get me to go with them somewhere else and/or special -- leading you somewhere captive and then demanding a fee.

    Taking part in a multi-day tour in Morocco, every food and cultural stop was at a place clearly on the take. I don't mind the cultural ones so much, but the restaurant stops were borderline offensive. Morocco has wonderful food with complex spices and yet every place we were taken (and always to a place with no other options nearby) would charge us triple for boring, bland, tasteless tagine. It's a tragedy and such a bummer because instead of showing off what your country and culture can produce, it makes me want to avoid it entirely.

    None of it ever feels particularly threatening or worrisome, but it keeps my guard up at all times and that's exhausting for me. It jars me out of enjoying the place or people watching from afar. I don't like constant interaction and having to say no ad infinteum. I once got hollered at for not wanting to eat in a guy's restuarant after I had momentarily paused nearby to glance at the posted menu. Mind you, I was already carrying take out with me!

    Hopefully obviously, none of that is to say that I view their culture as bad or wrong or anything similarly jingoistic. It's just a bad fit for my personality. For other people I am sure they would pay no attention to these things and would feel invigorated and love their time there.

    Baku also felt very Turkic to me, with the same pluses and minuses. Except I wasn't around much to see the positives.

    Upon arrival,we needed to secure a transit card to get from the airport to the city center. The transit card machine had no English option. That meant there was a lot of trying out various menus and comparing prices displayed to best guesses. Which means we were there for a bit, and attracted the attention of quite a few of the loitering taxi drivers. Nothing unusual about that and I expect to get touted no matter where I am in that situation, but they -- and this happened in Istanbul, and Yerevan, too -- would constantly be telling us there were no buses. Look man, try to sell me on convenience of the taxi all you want, but I find lying about the presense of a bus pretty annoying. It clearly exists, and I've already told you ten times I'm going to take it.

    We get to the hostel and they don't really have a record of our reservation. We paid for a 4-bed dorm with air conditioning and instead are dumped into a 12-bed dorm without A/C. They compensate for the lack of A/C by having a few fans going and the windows open. But there are no mosquito screens on the windows and so over two nights I manage to accrue quite a number of bites while also being uncomfortably sweaty and hot. Not a welcoming combo.

    We strolled the waterfront that night, and before turning in stopped to get a drink. I hate the awkwardness of not knowing what's free and what might be an exorbitant ripoff in different cultures. I guess finding out is the basis for a funny story though either way? 39m for the food holy fucking hell. A kebab is like 3. Hate feeling taken advantage of, or being a rube. Also hate paying $25 for some chips, smoked cheese, and lemon slices with sugar. Even an airport would be ashamed to charge that. Can't shake the anger. 39m would buy a good steak dinner for two! But also ultimately it's $20. God I'm broken. Trying to look at it like a counseling lesson. Maybe now I won't feel awkward about being straight forward and asking "what is this?" and "how much does it cost?"



    A funicular was listed in the guide as being free, but an attendant was hovering in the vicinity of the turnstile and whenever tourists approached would insist on payment to let people through. Again, it was 1 manat or something similarly petty so it's not a big deal, and in isolation I wouldn't even remember it. But when little things like that happen time and time again throughout a day, they add up and leave a certain impression that outweighs others.

    An overarching theme is that dishonesty is a super big deal for me. On a higher level, that's corruption and also uncertainty, and having some degree of certainty, or trust, in the civic institutions is a big help. I'm fed up with the lack of that in America as well.


Waterfront



ASIDES

Fountains


Buildings


Traditions
    Carpets:

    Bread:

    Bidet: An early reminder that we'd be making use of bidets frequently on this trip. It finally got me over the hump and committed to trying to install one when I got home - which I did ultimately do.


Random Pics

